                  The Options Program

     The OPTIONS program on the CPM disk is designed  to 
allow  the RAMDISK to be attached to the APPLE either as 
one or two drives with the interface card in either slot 
4 or 5 which are reserved for disk drives by the system. 
If  it  is  decided to use the RAMDISK as  a  two  drive 
device  then a choice between 128Kbyte  (standard  APPLE 
size)  or 160Kbyte (maximum with the RAMDISK) drives  is 
offered. If the single drive option is selected then the 
resulting  drive  is  a 320Kbyte drive  which  for  most 
applications will be the preferred configuration.
     The  program when run creates loader programs  with 
names  indicating  the configuration which  will  result 
from  their execution after a switch on  - providing  of 
course that the RAMDISK is attached to the corresponding 
slot. A loader program installs the interfacing programs 
and  informs CPM of their existence.  This is only  done 
once  following  a  switch on or cold  boot.  Running  a 
loader  twice will lose the system necessitating  a  re-
boot. 
     Running the program is simple. Boot the CPM system, 
insert  a disk containing the OPTIONS.COM file and  type 
<disk designation:>OPTIONS. If the disk is placed in the 
boot  drive (A:) the disk designation may be omitted  as 
usual  but  the disk must then have a copy  of  the  CPM 
system on it as well as the OPTIONS.COM file. 

     You  will  then be faced with  this  display.  (The 
underlining  does not appear on the screen nor does  the 
lower case on a normal APPLE screen)

AXLON RAMDISK INTERFACE GENERATOR

This generator produces a program to
attach the AXLON RAMDISK to the CPM
system. The program name is determined
by the configuration options selected.
The currently selected options give 
SL56C5C .COM as the program name.

Accept this configuration ? Y

S....D)ouble or S)ingle drive
L....L)arge or N)ormal capacity
5....5)6k or 4)4k system
6
C....C)lear or P)reserve contents
5....RAMDISK in slot 4) or 5)
C....first drive designation
  ....second drive if configured

Type <RETURN> to accept the defaults

The cursor is on the Y of the
'Accept this configuration ? Y' 
line  initially.  You  will note that the  program  name 
selected  matches the left hand option column  and  this 
match is maintained throughout your interaction with the 
program.  The name changes as you make your choices.  If 
the  option offered is acceptable and you indicate  this 
with  any one of <RETURN>,Y,or y the program correspond
ing  to the choices displayed is filed on the  currently 
logged disk under the displayed filename.  A response of 
n or N is echoed to the screen and causes the cursor  to 
move  to  the first position for your choice.  Here  the 
acceptable inputs are D or S.  If D is selected then  it 
is  echoed  and  the  filename is amended  in  both  the 
vertical  and horizontal displays to contain  two  drive 
designations  corresponding  to the  currently  selected 
slot  (C:  and D:  for slot 5 E:  and F:  for slot 4  to 
maintain  compatibility with the CPM  conventions).  You 
are  then  offered large (160K) drives or normal  (128K) 
drives  - an  offer which is not made if  you  select  a 
single  drive system when the name is automatically mod
ified  to  imply a large (320k in this case)  drive  and 
only one drive designation (C: or E: depending on slot). 
After  determination of the drive size the cursor  moves 
to the 5 of the system size line to determine whether  a 
44K or 56K system is needed. The second character of the 
size  specification is automatically updated.  The  next 
offer  is  whether  to clear or  preserve  the  existing 
contents  of  the  RAMDISK.  (You will  need  to  create 
programs   for  each  of  these  options  as  a  RAMDISK 
previously used on some other system than CPM or  other
wise corrupted will need initialising.) The final option 
is  the specification of the slot in which the interface 
card  for the RAMDISK is to be placed.  Here the accept
able options are slots 4 or 5.  The cursor then  returns 
to its original position and displays a Y as the default 
decision.  This  process  may then be repeated until  an 
acceptable configuration is selected.
     At all times the displayed filename is a valid name 
and no invalid inputs are accepted.
    When  acceptance of a configuration is indicated the 
loader program is written to disk as described above and 
the program terminates.

     Resulting from the use of OPTIONS you will obtain a 
number  of secondary programs (inelegantly named but  of 
course  you  may  later  give them  names  of  your  own 
choosing) the use of which is simple.  At any time after 
booting  you run the secondary program you have  created 
once only and it attaches the RAMDISK.  If you are using 
a  P)reserve  option program then no change  to  RAMDISK 
contents is made and you must ensure that they (the con
tents) were created with a compatible program (same disk 
size  is  all that is necessary).  You may then use  the 
RAMDISK  freely.  The secondary program must not be  run 
twice  but  there  is  no reason  why  two  RAMDISKs  in 
different slots should not be attached,  each by running 
its  appropriate loader,  nor why RAMCARDS such  as  the 
SATURN  disk  emulators  should not be used as  long  as 
the  power  supply can cope with them and  their  inter
facing programs are run first. 
     None  of the user I/O space is used by  OPTIONS  or 
its  resulting  loaders and so non-standard  peripherals 
can  be  used  as described in  the MCIROSOFT  manuals.